ever since Breaking Bad came to a close
the tales of the Albuquerque criminal
underworld have continued with better
call Saul and El Camino but Walter
White's timeline is done so I'm gonna
take you through the whole original
series somehow the entire story takes
place in just two years so keeping track
of what happens when is a little tricky
thankfully using a compound of
established dates and reference time
skips we've cooked up a Breaking Bad
timeline that is 99.1% perfect yes
science 1980s through 1990s decades
before Walter White enters the meth
business he's in the science business
after meeting his partner Elliott
Schwartz during grad school at the
California Institute of Technology
Walt joins forces and last names with
him to co-found gray matter technologies
the enterprising company takes the
scientific world by storm
filing for patents and revolutionising
the field with synchrotrons and the
molecular switch and what have you Walt
already has a pedigree as project leader
of a Nobel Prize winning project from
1985 and much of the company's
innovation center around his continued
research he and Elliot are joined by
Walt's other serious long-term partner
his girlfriend Gretchen they're madly in
love and looking forward to marriage but
all that changes one fourth of July
weekend in Newport when Walt meets her
family Gretchen and her brothers come
from a privileged background far
different from Walt's own upbringing by
an estranged single mother even though
Walt's already on track for staggering
success he less than an inferiority
complex get the better of him that same
weekend he packs his bags and leaves
Newport Gretchen and gray matter behind
taking a buyout of $5,000
one-third of the company's worth at the
time at least that pays his rent for a
few months and soon Walt finds a
promising future in applications at
Sandia National Laboratories he
frequently takes his bike to the nearby
restaurant where when Skyler Lambert is
working a summer job as a hostess while
notices that she secretly works on the
daily crossword puzzles at her post so
he begins to bring them in with him to
spark conversation sure enough to end up
falling in love and getting married 1993
to 2008 with plans for a baby Walt and
Skyler go house-hunting in the suburbs
of Albuquerque they find a great starter
home at 308 negra arroyo Lane and doan
optimistic Walt thinks they'll need more
room for three eventual kids in a home
office they decided to buy it
parenthood is more complicated than they
planned as Walter White jr. is born with
cerebral palsy in 1993 now I don't know
if Walt loses or leaves his job at
Sandia National Laboratories but he ends
up teaching chemistry at JP Wynn high
one of his students is junior Jesse
Pinkman a rowdy but otherwise bright kid
who Walt thinks needs to apply himself
better teaching doesn't pay enough to
cover all the white family expenses
especially after Skyler quits her
accounting job at Beneke fabricators so
in 2004 Walt applies himself by picking
up a second job at a won a car wash he's
had a bug up his butt about money ever
since gray matter technologies hit it
big on the back of his research heading
towards a value of two billion dollars
around April of 2008 Walton Skyler
accidentally conceived a second child
and they cannot afford that to get some
extra cash
Skyler starts selling off their old
knickknacks it's a hard but honest
living well at least now they've got
nowhere to go but up
September 2008 to circa November 2008
right after his fiftieth birthday on
September 7 2008 Walt is diagnosed with
stage 3 lung cancer and given two years
to live he realizes that his family
won't have any cash flow after he bites
it so he concocts a plan to cooking some
meth for some big bucks to prepare for
his business Walt goes on a ride-along
with his DEA brother-in-law Hank where
he spots none other than the rowdy
bright Jesse Pinkman all grown up and
slinging meth he confronts Jesse and
propositions him about becoming partners
and though jesse is unsure why mr. white
would suddenly want to break bad he
agrees he scrounges up an RV and the to
cook their first batch in the middle of
nowhere as they wait for the crystals to
cool Walt phone Skyler with his first
big lie but she doesn't even need to
hear it because she trusts him instead
she pitches the name Holly for their
baby
Walton Jesse's product comes out crystal
clear but a crazy turn of events forces
them to kill Jesse's usual distributor
it's been about a month since Walt's
cancer diagnosis and his family finally
finds out about it but Walt is more
concerned with making those fat stacks
Jesse's Powell skinny Pete hooks them up
with Tuco a maniac drug kingpin with
deep cartel connections Walt whips up a
batch of meth along with a new alias
Heisenberg for Tuco only to get it
stolen when Tuco kicks the [ __ ] out of
Jesse when Jesse tries to negotiate a
deal to get the money back Walt storms
Tuco's hideout blows the whole place up
with some fulminated mercury and earns
Tuco's respect from here Tuco and
Heisenberg agree to do business during
their next meet up strong out Tuco beats
his own minion to death for speaking out
of turn
the DEA discovers the body and connects
it back to Tuco then raids his
headquarters Juuko escapes the scene and
takes Walt and Jesse hostage at his
uncle's house in the desert ready to
ship them off to the cartel in Mexico
back home
Skyler and Marie worry about Walt's son
disappearance so they hand out missing
posters
fortunately for walton Jesse Hank
arrives at the shack and kills the
kingpin in a shootout while Lutz his
brother-in-law then feigns a fugue state
as an alibi for his disappearance we
later lies that the few state was a
cover-up for the stress he's feeling at
home in his confession he tells the
doctor his wife is seven months pregnant
which puts us in November circa December
2008 to February 2009 Walt story puts
his family at ease for the time being
but Skyler is still suspicious of his
recent behavior now that things are sort
of back to normal
Walt and Jesse continue to peddle their
blueSky meth only now they cut out the
distributor and leave the sales to
Jesse's cronies skinny Pete Badger and
combo things are going well until two
junkies Rob skinny Pete while Jesse's
chasing the thieves one crushes the
others head with an ATM
everyone thinks Jesse did it so word
spreads on the streets that Heisenberg
is not to be messed with the Albuquerque
Police Department gets the message too
so they target an arrest badger for
dealing Walt and Jesse are worried
badger might snitch so they consult Saul
Goodman a criminal lawyer with a whole
entire messy spinoff timeline of his own
that's totally worth covering in a
separate video this all helps throw the
DEA off their trail and he hooks them up
with a big-time distributor who's
starring he's the overly cautious owner
of the fast-food chain those pious
hermanos who also happens to run a
massive meth Empire Walt and Jesse score
an elusive meeting with him which Jesse
watches by showing up high
luckily Walt manages to buy them a
second chance gus gives them one hour to
deliver their product to a drop zone so
Walt frantically phones Jesse who's
keeping the meth at his apartment
unfortunately Jesse's girlfriend Jane
turned him on to heroin so he's onct out
and misses the call Walt breaks into the
apartment to collect the meth just as
Skyler goes into labor he's forced to
miss Holly's birth around mid January to
complete the deal over the next two
weeks
Walt spitefully withholds Jesse's share
of the gus deal waiting for him to get
clean but wall has an operation on the
horizon he's agitated that he can't even
use his own share to fund it this all
works out a way to launder the money if
juniors donation site ww saved Walter
White calm while Jane works out a way to
get Jesse his cut by blackmailing Walt
she calls his home and strong-arms him
into bringing Jesse what he's owed well
complies then hits up a bar where he
coincidentally meets Jane's dad
Donald they talk about their kids and
Donald tells Walt not to give up on
family and Walt is so moved that he
returns to Jesse's apartment after
letting himself in he finds Jesse and
Jane doped up on heroin and watches as
Jane chokes on her own vomit refusing to
help her the following week he checks
Jesse into a rehab facility and then
goes in for a search
circa March 2009 to May 2009 while Walt
recovers from the surgery over the next
four weeks
Donald continues a five-week absence
from work following Jane's death and
Holly turns seven weeks old all the
numbers track during Walt's recovery
time Skyler makes calls to Gretchen
Schwartz and Walt's mother to catch at
the bottom of his lies a chance up with
more questions than answers
Walt returns home in March only to learn
that Skyler is taking the kids and
leaving him that same day Donald returns
to his job as an air traffic controller
and in his continued grief over Jane
makes a fatal error that causes two
airliners to crash over Albuquerque in
the wake of the catastrophe Walt
struggles to take responsibility for any
of his actions until Skyler serves him
with divorce papers
he finally confesses to her about his
meth business but she isn't so
appreciative of the honesty and kicks
him out anyway
in an effort to make amends with Skyler
by force Walt quits working for Gus
switches focus back to his family and
moves back into the house whether Skyler
likes it or not and she does not
reclaiming power the only way she can
Skyler seduces Ted Beneke not to be
outdone Walt tries to seduce his boss
the principal at the high school but it
doesn't work and it gets fired at least
Gus successfully seduces Walt back to
the dark side by flaunting his super lab
and convincing him that a man must
provide even when he's underappreciated
that deep bro talk gets through the wall
so he signs the divorce papers and moves
out of the white house Skyler is
concerned that his blood money child
support payments will incriminate her
but he reminds her that his blood money
has been paying their bills for the past
six months that's October through March
Walt goes to work at the Super lab and
meets Gus's newest employee Gayle
bedecker Gayle is honored to partner
with the second favorite WWE Walt
doesn't return the sentiment Walt insist
that Gus hired Jesse instead a move that
Gus finds too reckless but ultimately
allows by approximately April Jesse and
Walt reunite but it's cut short when a
shootout with a cartel hospitalizes Hank
Walt lies to Gus and dips to visit his
brother-in-law
so he's alarmed when he gets word that
Gus is coming to visit Hank - Gus and
Hank had met at a fund Ranieri so Gus
was very aware of Walt's DEA connections
when he hired him one night in May
Skyler invites Walt over for dinner then
jr. seizes the opportunity to remind his
parents that he'll need a car soon even
though I won't be 16 for another two
months on July 8th on the topic of money
Skyler urges Walt to make sure he can
pay Hanks medical bills without
suspicion they decide to purchase the a1
a car wash as a front for their money
laundering since Walt used to work there
meanwhile things at Walt's second second
job get complicated when Jesse rebels
against Gus
employ child soldiers on the street Walt
barters with Gus for Jesse's safety and
Gus complies but the only intents to
keep the two around long enough for Gail
to learn the cooking method to save
their hides
Jesse kills Gail making Walt and Jesse
indispensable assets circa June 2009 to
July 2009 the DEA finds Gail's lab notes
at the scene of his murder
and Hank uses them to trace Gail back to
Heisenberg Walt confronts Jesse to make
sure he didn't leave any other
incriminating evidence at the apartment
but and um Jesse refuses to comply with
Walt's anymore even if it means
sabotaging their budding empire when
Jesse fails to show up for work one day
Walters convinced that Gus's hitman Mike
has taken him to be executed but once
Walt finds that Mike has been taking
Jesse along on secret missions he
realizes that Gus is building Jesse up
so he can play the two of them against
each other and kill two birds with one
stone wall reminds Jesse that last month
in May Gus was trying to kill them both
and show some Gus's manipulation by
manipulating him they decided to poison
Gus with ricin
but unfortunately for Walt his
self-centeredness is playing right in to
Gus's hands jesse is in no rush to
poison one of the few people who has
faith in him and he and Walt have a
full-on brawl Jesse totally kicks Walt's
ass but time is of the essence well
Hank's been recovering he's followed
some major leads back to los Pollos
hermanos on juniors birthday he visits
his father's condo and finds him in a
beaten-up sorry state Walt apologizes
and urges his son not to remember him
this way but junior finds comfort in the
fact that Walt hasn't been that real
since his cancer diagnosis Hank and Walt
keep their eyes on those points hermanos
while Jesse and Mike keep meeting up
eventually
Gus decides jesse is more valuable to
him than Walt especially since Walt's
brother-in-law is snooping around so Gus
fires Walt and threatens worse action if
he interferes with their handling of
Hank no longer able to fight Walt
chooses flight enlisting Saul's
disappear to relocate his family as Walt
tears apart the crawlspace looking for
his money Skyler admits that she gave it
all away to Ted Beneke Walt's desperate
so he devises a harebrained scheme as a
last Hail Mary
he has Saul's guys pickpocket to ricin
cigarette off Jesse but stealthily
poisoned Jesse's girlfriend's son brougt
with Lilly in the valley berries that
way Jesse thinks it was ricin poisoning
so that he'll think Walt was responsible
and come after him then Walt can get
back into Jesse's good graces by
convincing him and it's a setup by Gus
to trick Jesse into killing Walt from
there Jesse will lure Gus out to the
hospital or Brock is staying and then
Walt complaints a pipe bomb and Gus's
car and kill him once and for all anyway
yeah that last part doesn't work so they
get this cat it
to it that's Hector Salamanca he's
Tuco's uncle who used to run the cartel
and you know what I don't have time to
get into it let's just let's just move
on to August circa August 2009 to
October 2009 Gus is dead waltz recovered
from his beatdown Jesse's on the hunt
for the ricin cigarette to prove once
and for all that he didn't poison Brock
Walt plants a fake ricin cigarette in
Jesse's rumba the two let bygones be
bygones and join forces with Mike Saul
and the high-strung businesswoman Lydia
to establish a new method for meth
peddling they start cooking inside
houses under fumigation with a vamonos
pest company as their front it's an
effective system but they sell to pay
off some of their old cronies who are in
jail so Walt's net income goes way down
in September the night before Walt's
51st birthday he hits Skyler with some
new cash to launder even though he be
Gus he's still in the drug game
so Skyler is shaken and wants to send
their children away for their protection
but Walt pushes back he asks her where
they'll send their eight-month-old
anyway to get some leverage
Skyler waits for Walt's birthday party
then fakes a suicide attempt by walking
into the pool in front of Hank and Marie
which persuades them to take custody of
jr. and Holly for the next three months
Walt calls her act short-sighted but she
tells him that her real long con is
waiting for Walt to just die already
until that day comes Walt has an
enterprise to run DEA is putting more
pressure on Mike so he and Jesse opt out
of the business entirely they want to
sell their supply of methylamine to one
of Gus's old competitors Declan but they
can't seal the deal without Walt share
thing is Walt's learned a lot since the
gray matter days he's unwilling to
settle for a buyout so he comes up with
a new strategy Declan can buy out Mike
share and become the distribution
network they all meet in the desert the
deal is done faster than you can say
Heisenberg Mike takes his cut and leaves
but the DEA moves against him forcing
him to abandoned his granddaughter at
the park and a few key belongings in a
second car
he has Walt bring his items to him and
Walt takes the opportunity to press Mike
for the names of his jailed henchmen but
when Mike doesn't cooperate an insulted
Walter shoots him dead even though he
could have just got the names from Lydia
with both Mike and Jesse out of the
picture
Walt charges onward paying Lydia to give
him the henchmans names then hiring a
gang of white supremacists to whack them
all in jail it's a success and the
Golden Age of Heisenberg's empire begins
circa november to february 2010 for the
next couple months Walton is new Lackey
Todd cook meth under the guise of
fumigators Lydia distributes the product
to the Czech Republic and Skyler Lauder
is the money through the carwash
it's a seamless operation raking in over
80 million dollars Walt's cancer has
been better for some time but now it
returns with a vengeance in December
skyler visits her kids at the Schrader
house and Marie notes that it may be
time to bring them home since it's been
about three months
Skyler concurs so she takes Walter the
storage container full of cash and
insists he gets out of the biz
after a month things have calmed down
for January Walt's out of the meth trade
jr. and Holly come home and the whites
and traders have a backyard reunion like
the good old days the worst seems to be
behind them until Hank pops open the
copy of leaves of grass in Walt's
bathroom with a message from Gale
bedecker inside he realizes that for
over a year Heisenberg has been close
enough to check him for ernia so he
NAB's the book and bales later Walt
notices that his Walt Whitman book has
gone missing paranoid that Hank has
finally caught him he visits his
brother-in-law who has connected all the
dots and now demands Walt surrender his
family Walt refuses advises Hank to
tread lightly despite the tough face
Walt is shaken by Hanks discovery so he
smuggles his fortune out of storage and
buries it in the middle of nowhere he
and Skyler figured that Hank doesn't
have enough evidence for an arrest until
Saul tells them the Hank has already
tried to interrogate Jesse eager to tie
up that loose end
while pushes Jesse to higher Saul's
disappear and move to Alaska it almost
works but Jesse realizes that he's being
manipulated again so he teams up with
Hank and the DEA
well once again Walt hires the white
supremacist to do his dirty business and
murder Jesse but before they have the
chance to learn out Jesse sends Walt a
fake photo of the Buried stash and
threatens to burn it the trick works at
Walt Rockets to the reserve leading Hank
straight there by the time Walt realizes
that it's a trap it's too late he's
unaware that Jesse is colluding with
Hank so he summons the skinheads to come
attack Jesse just as Hank bused Walt
they arrive on the scene and execute the
DEA agents the skinheads commandeer most
of Walt's fortune and enslaved Jesse as
their meth cook so Walt employs his
family to leave ABQ with him but once
they learn of Hanks death all bets are
off
so while briefly kidnaps Holly with
Walt's true identity revealed and his
family against him he calls on Saul's
disappear and vanishes into the snowy
wilderness of New Hampshire the
disappear tells Walt that he should be
able to last out the winter so we're
probably around February or so February
to September 2010 Walt is itching to get
revenge on the neo-nazis but his failing
health gets the better of him as he
starts a slow decay in the cabin creator
Vince Gilligan and writer Peter Gould
have said that while it spends four to
six months of the cab
so let's say he was there from February
through August and the final visit
before Walt leaves the disappear tells
him he'll see him on the African in of
the 15th so it's about halfway through
the month while it hangs on for a few
weeks longer with the window to get
money to his family is shrinking when a
desperate call to jr. ends in a
screaming match Walt finally caves calls
the authorities on himself but as he's
waiting for them to pick him up he
catches a Charlie Rose interview with
Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz with a
discredit Walt and distance themselves
from his legacy well it's not having it
so he sets off on a farewell tour
visiting his dilapidated house coercing
Gretchen and Elliott to give jr. money
for his 18th birthday checking in on
Skyler and Holly and of course poisoning
Lydia he also takes time to enjoy some
bacon and eggs on his birthday
with just one debt left to settle Walt
swings by the neo-nazi compound and mows
them all down with a mounted machine gun
in his trunk using his own body to
protect Jesse from the bullets the two
part ways with one final head nod to
acknowledge all they've been through
Jesse hits the road and Walt dies in the
same place he lived a meth lab that
wraps up Walt's story but if you've seen
the show you know there's plenty more to
cover
Jesse Gus saw so many characters with
their own stories to explore let me know
if you want to see them and remember to
subscribe to cinematic uh for more
timelines like this one
I've been your host Marcus we'll see you
next time
[Music]